over by the campus theater. And I really don't know
how I got my business messed up, but I did terribly.
First of all, my grades were terrible. And
secondly, I got to bumming around with some
upperclassmen in other units. And I'm going to say
that they led me wrong on whatever And I turned up
having a
clash of personalities with my first sergeant.
And it got rather serious.
They had what they called rams at that time. A
little book about the book of rams looked like a set
of three to five note cards. And another class
would write you some rams. thought you deserved
such. My first son thought I deserved a bunch of
them. I think I set an indoor record for RAM. It led
to my acquiring the name of Head. You want to hear
that story? Yes, yes. I can't believe this is
thrilling, but I had a grandfella in my outfit
named Buckwires. What a great guy he was. And he was
a San Antonio boy. Went to Central Catholic over
and came to A&M. He was a senior when I was a
freshman, which made him class of 42. But for
whatever reason it was, he laid over and became a
five-year man. And bear in mind that a senior was
somebody that you spoke to with care, you held in
great reverence, and the only thing above a senior
was a five-year man. Weiss was still taking
military science and that type of thing. But I ran
into all this trouble with his first son, who
incidentally was a good guy, but what a class of
personality. Anyway, Buck said to his first son,
anything, to paraphrase, I'll have a talk with
Davis and I'll straighten him out. From now on, you
leave him alone, I'll take him over. So he got me in a
room on the third floor, I'm going to say room 14.
And he, nobody there but us. He told me, he said, now
the first sergeant has turned you over to me.
You're my responsibility from now on. And I think
that you'll be gone from here before long because I
think We're all going to run you off. He said,
someday, if you do stay around, since you may be a
junior or a senior or even a five-year man like me,
he said, someday, you might have a gold hat card and
you might get to wear boots. But he said, you've got
to bear in mind that if I tell you that wall's pink,
it's pink. Remember this. like it was yesterday.
And he said, whatever else I tell you, that's the
gospel. And he said, it doesn't make any
difference if you do become a singer. He said to me,
you ain't never going to be anything but a
pisshead. And that was only what number of years
ago? Summer of 1942. And somebody heard that, I
guess, or he repeated it to them, and they
mercifully deleted the prefix and I became known
as Head and it's endured quite well. Buck Wires, a
great guy.
Memorable teachers, advisors, other
non-student individuals that had an important
effect on your life?
Who were some of the outstanding
Oh, mercy.
I was in such terrible trouble up until World War II
as a student at Texas A&M. I had, of course, the
usual number of professors and they were all smart
and they were all good. I just didn't listen
carefully. As a matter of fact, I would have never
graduated from Texas A&M, I'm quite sure, had not
World War II occurred. The government mobilized
16 million people so I could get out of A&M. Because
before the war, I was in every school they had. But
every time I turned around, I was meeting up with
chemistry. And I was just out of it. Just
absolutely out of it. After the war, it was a
different story. Who was your chemistry teacher?
Oh, Dr. Potter. Dr. Potter. I'm sorry, Dr. Potts.
He had a son. As a matter of fact, the psychiatrist,
Devin Bryan, I'm not sure that he's still here, but
Dr. Potts. Did he have a nickname? I can't recall
that he did. The other famous chemistry professor
over there was Heddy N. Jones. He did have it. Later
became a client of mine and his family. Now what was
his nickname? Hed N. Jones. Do you know why that?
Why that head end came? I do not know. He would come
into class and he would say, in
regard to the next meeting of this class, it
depends on how Mrs. Jones treats me. If she bakes me
a cherry pie, you probably won't have a quiz. But if
she doesn't make me a cherry pie, you're probably
going to have a quiz. I knew him well and in later
years. What about English? Oh, there was some of
the famous names. Talk about those. There was
Shaky Powell. Seemed like to me he taught me some
type of public speaking and he had a remarkable
voice. He made fun or ridiculed Aggies to an extent
respectfully. He said, you think you can yell loud
for A&M athletes greatness on Kyle feet? He said,
listen to this. And he had something about his
voice that he could make the walls crumble. I
remember that very well, very vividly. And as I
recall, that was shaky power. And so he could make
the walls shake. With that voice. You have to do it.
And that's exactly what we need. To modulate his
voice. I remember well, he said, now listen to
this. You learn to do that, and you make some noise
and kind of think. There was Square Root Jackson.
He taught mathematics. Didn't teach me much, but
he was a mathematics guy. And probably a single
man. I know as late as 1963 when I moved back to
Bryan, he was still riding them. bicycle down
Texas Avenue and you didn't want to do that even in
1963. He used to come in a classroom and approach
the blackboard with an eraser and he would take a
couple of minutes and would erase that board
symmetrically. Very precise. It was a beautiful
thing when he finished. Then he would take that
eraser and he would dust it across the back of a
chair. And then he would hold it at eye level and
drop it two or three times on the floor, pick it up
and drop it again. I had an old classmate, Bobby
Harris, down in Abasota. He one day said, hey,
Ruth, how come you dropped the racer like that? And
he said, Mr. Harris, someday I'm going to turn it
loose and it won't fall. And Mr. Harris didn't have
any future in trigonometry after that. Great old
gentleman. There was a fellow named Dutch Halpern
who was a brilliant mathematician. I don't know
whether he's been mentioned to you or not, but he
was top of the line in the mathematics department
at the time. And, of course, you heard him
screaming Allen Elson. Describe him. Oh, he
was... I can remember him saying, I have spent nine
years in the college classroom preparing to
teach. And when he taught, you could hear him all
over the campus. That's the name... I knew him well
in later years after moving back to Bryan. What did
he scream about?
Of course he was teaching history because I
remember South American history I think perhaps
was his specialty. But did he have some special
likes or dislikes? That I can't recall. I probably
wasn't listening good enough. Who else? Oh,
Mercy. Dr. Cofer was a well-known fellow around on
the campus. His son, D. Brooks Cofer, Jr., still in
Bryan, fine lawyer. Dr. Cofer was an English
fellow. Seemed like to me he was called Dusty, but
I'm not sure. I never had him. But he gave me some
very interesting pamphlets fit for the archive of
Texas A&M. I knew him, and he was a grand old
general. In later years, a fellow that didn't
impress me or help me along in courses after the war
was a fellow named Satch Elkins. I'm thinking of
those that have got these nicknames. Why Satch? I
can't recall. I don't know that one either. I don't
know, but he was a business professor. But he was,
E.W. was his initial rider called, but he was
notoriously known in sacks everywhere. Another
industry one was Homer Hill Norton, who was a
football coach. Well respected, a member of the
college football hall of fame. He was called by his
ball player, Hoghead, for H.A. Wasn't that
creative? I can't remember that there are others.
There are bound to be. Okay. One of them, I do
remember a statistician named Miles Hamilton.
You know, this was the era of nicknames. Now, were
those nicknames put-downs, or were they, in fact,
backhanded compliments? Backhanded
compliments in every instance, I would say. I
think so, too. A lot of my classmates, a lot of my
acquaintances, some older, had nicknames. We had
a fellow that we called Wampajaw first.
Notoriously known. That Buck Weirson one. Got an
old friend here in College Station now. His
initials were FC, so he was called Flatcock. And
known quite well. Catfish Winters. Shorty
Fuller. Dog Dawson. Jelly Stein. Not everybody,
but many had nicknames. I don't know that children
knew that anymore. All right, now on a serious
note, if you turned to someone for advice and
counsel, particularly when you came back after
the war, who was it?
After the war? Either one, but I was meaning don't
leave that era out. If I had a problem prior to, and I
lived with problems, My battery commander before
the war, as I said, was Jack Taylor and Tudor Ball.
They were very, very nice guys and great
gentlemen, great soldiers. And you could go, a
freshman could go to them with a problem. You could
not go to the sophomore class with a problem.
You did not want to see those people. That's
just...
just the way it was but it had a good some good points
not many but some good one of them was you were
obligated to know everybody in your dormitory and
and almost literally their hometown and their
course of study which meant
not very many places could i be in texas that i don't
know somebody unless they did i did know somebody
And that was part of the deal.
After the war,
Lord, I was an old man by then, as everybody else
was. I was 22 years old, something like that. And I
was dead serious then. I made up my mind to be a
lawyer. Dead serious. And whereas I made all C's
and D's and F's before the war, I made all A's after
the war. That's the only way I got into law school,
with a C after. All right, now we won't get to that
war, those things in a minute. What were the
expected rules
of classroom behavior and attendance and so forth
for you before you go away to the war? Well, you
weren't going to miss any classes. The
upperclassmen saw that. We did not miss classes.
And I don't ever recall any disturbance in the
classroom of any kind or any place else.
Sophomores handled all that. Whereas you got Bob
White and 150 policemen now, you had a sophomore
class that could handle that discipline. That
presented no problem. No problem. Did you go to
sleep in class? Oh, yeah. Yeah, I did some of them.
Got a hot foot one time. I got literally the only hot
foot I've ever had. I got a hot foot at the Rural
Socialist Clinic. Dr. Dan Davis was teaching it,
and I am almost sure that he never missed a beat. He
was giving his lecture and didn't intend to be
interrupted by a hot foot, and it almost killed
him. And I did scream out, never missed a beat.
Summer of 42. Let's see, YMCA, did it have a, what
happened at that building? What role did that
building play in a student's life? Well, there
were two. One was called the old Y building that
still stands. It's right out the west door of the
academic building, right across the street from
the old Y's law and puryear halls. I guess they're
now gone. The Cavalry Regiment had a rich heritage
in those two buildings, I'll tell you. But the old Y
was operated by a fellow named Cashin, Red
Cashin's father. I can't recall his initials.
Probably M.L. Red's Mason Lee, and he's probably
Mason Lee Jr. I knew Mr. Cashin casually, knew who
he was. Seemed like to be in the bottom of the old Y.
there was a small bowling alley. Can't be sure
about that. I am positive that in the bottom of the
old wine was a small confectionery that was
operated by Bill Sparks and J.F. Casey. Again,
Bill Sparks and J.F. Casey sat on a high stool and
took in nickels and dimes and a fortune. You get a
sandwich there if you had the money and get an ice
cream cone. And there were a couple reading rooms
upstairs It seemed like. I'm sure the Y must have
conducted some probably very good and native
programs. I was never in on any of them because I was
busy over in the new area. Then there was a new Y. The
new Y was, I believe, a stucco building right at the
extreme northwest corner of the block occupied by
the 12 dormitories called the new area. And they
had a pool table in there and not much else. They did
have a radio because I heard President
Roosevelt's speech to the Congress in that
building on that radio. Hold that one because
that's important. Guyon Hall. Oh, Guyon Hall.
What happened in Guyon Hall? They showed you a
picture. It might have charged a quarter there.
What other events happened in Gine Hall? Oh, they
bring different things there. Freshmen would get
to see some of them. Now, could you go to a movie any
night you wanted to? I remember attending
a religious activity in Gine Hall. What kind? Some
speaker who was here for, let's say, two or three
days. Religious emphasis week, maybe? Perhaps,
perhaps. Guy Hall was famous for another thing.
What's that? Well, he had a basement. Not really a
basement. He had an underneath area. And when the
upperclassmen left here in the spring, you could
store a footlocker under there. And you had to get
out on your stomach to crawl around almost to find
these footlockers. And one of the chores of a new
freshman was to get under the building and find his
warden master's Foot Locker. And you met a lot of
good fellows under there with the same chore you
did. Do you remember any important
personalities, nationally famous people that
came to visit the campus? To visit the campus?
Like Roosevelt didn't come? He came here before I
was around, probably in 1939 maybe. But Garner
didn't come and John J. Pershing didn't come. I
remember after the war now, there was an
outstanding man, General Eisenhower, spoke at
the muster in 1946 in Kyle Field. Describe that.
Well...
I get goofy every now and then. No, no. That's what
we want.
Well, it was a great time. And the reason it was a
great time is because it was April the 21st. Surely
I'm correct about that. In 1946. And not
everybody, but nearly everybody was back from
World War II. And the campus was swarming with
folks you had known before the war. Not all of them
were in school on that very day, but they came
everywhere to hear General Eisenhower. And it was
well known, well publicized. It was a big time
event. General Eisenhower, as I recall, had been
very generous about praise
Anyway, it was a big deal. Did he say anything
special about Aggies? I can't recall, but he had to
be complimentary. I can't recall. I was there.
Before the war, do you remember going to Muster's?
No.
I've often thought about that.
It may be
that on an old dark as I remember wet day at the
evening formation retreat in 1942 it seemed to me
that a number of names were called out none of which
I could hear they were doing this down around
Duncan Hall and I've often thought that maybe that
was a muster but I'm not sure that it was. The first
musket I recall in my own experience was at Camp
Ruber, Oklahoma in 1943. What camp? Camp Ruber.
Ruber. In 1943. Let's see. Before the war, now,
were still silver taps. Where and what was it?
Yeah, I remember silver taps vividly. Do it the
same way. You assembled in front of the academic
building and they came out on the portico, is that
what I wanted to say? Balcony up there. And... Who
went? I assumed everybody. I certainly did. Lord,
if I got to go, everybody went. And how did you
behave afterward?
After TAPS is over, I have no clear memory, but I
can't imagine that you did anything except slink
away to your hole. I think that's good.
Let's see. Other student organizations other
than the Corps before the war. Bands, singing
cadets, anything? Describe those.
Well, I would say to you that undoubtedly, student
government as it is known now is
terribly different than what the situation was
then. The student life business was in the Corps of
Cadets. Everybody, with few exceptions, were in
the Corps of Cadets. If you were a bad 4F person or a
slight handful of graduate students, you might
not belong to the Corps. But other than that,
everybody belonged to the Corps, and you had about
all the student life you could have with what went
on in your military unit. Now, I can remember that
many towns. I can remember that Wichita Falls, my
hometown, had a Wichita Falls hometown club. And
what did those hometown clubs do? Oh, Lord, we did
meet. I got to go a time or two. One thing we did, I can
recall, this was a before-the-war event, was we
brought the Aggieland Orchestra to Wichita Falls
during the Christmas season. They made a big tour
over many spots in Texas over that period, and one
stop was in Wichita Falls, a big dance. What was the
Aggieland Orchestra? Was this a symphony? Oh,
yes, it was a symphony. There's a fellow named
Curly Brown. headed that deal up. My friend Buck
Wires played the drums and sang way on the
outskirts of town. And an old classmate of mine who
was a freshman, very unusual for a freshman to be in
an Angolan orchestra, but he happened to be a good
sax man and we called him Fish Angolan Murphy
because he was a member of the band. A boy named
Dinkle Webb played something Freddie Nelson, who
still lives in Bryan today, played at my 50th
wedding anniversary in February. Was the piano
man? Oh, let me think. Don Hackney played a
saxophone. This was a band. Something else I need
to mention about them, too. This was a band who
played popular tunes of the day. The significant
thing about it is, I suppose, It was in the spring or
summer of 1942 that they played on the Fitch
Bandwagon. The Fitch Bandwagon was a
network radio program whereby college bands came
to perhaps New York. It certainly wasn't
Waxahachie. It was Chicago, New York, or
wherever. And that was their program for that day.
It was a tremendous event on A&M campus. All of the
windows were open. You didn't have a radio. You
heard the radio. Who was the director of that?
Curly Brown was our student. Oh, yeah. All of them
were students. Oh, yeah. And they played for
dances if they didn't have some big-time guy
coming in. Now, do you remember any of the big-time
groups that did come? Oh, yeah. Who? There
was a fella named, I guess, Jimmy. Jimmy Lunsford.
He was a big-time deal. Carmen Caballero.
Got to be others because the regimental balls and
the senior ring dance, that was big-time stuff.
Now, where were those dances held? Sabisa Hall.
Describe them. Describe the dances? Well, the
girls came from everywhere. And the girls came out
from Bryan. They were known as the Bryan 400. And
the girls came from Denton, from, I don't know if
that was still CIA or TSCW or what at the time. They
came on buses and so on. Like her? How did the dance
participants dress? Girls had on nice forms. And
you could wear tuxedos. If you didn't have
tuxedos, a tuxedo, you wore a
dress uniform. Dresses that you hate, the best
dress you hate. And what kind of behavior pattern
was there at those? There was very little ruckus on
the inside. It was quite tame. There was always
some activity elsewhere. That was a big late
Dayton time. You could find out, could I have a late
Dayton? That meant after her main man took her
home, you could pick her up and so on. And it'd be
some visiting of the local joints, of which there
wasn't too many, but so on. What were those local
joints? Oh, I could talk a day about that. Is this
going on longer than you want it to go? No, no, no.
And if we don't finish today, we'll come back
another day at your convenience. Do you
understand that I slept on my head last night?
You've got a stiff neck. I've got a stiff neck. I
guess the most famous joint was Ed's, Uncle Ed's,
which was on the Wellman Road within walking
distance of the campus. famous old gentleman out
there, his name was Hartlicker, Ed Hartlicker.
And he had a daughter, Marilyn, who courted Jack
Fugate, who was the winner of the Ugly Man contest
at the time. They still do. Lord have mercy, I can't
think of his wife. Anyway, Arnold Ed's. It was a
famous place. You would take a girl there. There'd
be no trouble. There was just a lot of beer drinking
that went on, to be real. What were the favorite
brands of beer that Aggies considered? Oh, I would
suppose there were two
that come to mind. There might have been others,
but certainly Grand Prize was in the heyday at the
time, and Southern Select, and Jack's,
I don't remember Bud being particularly popular.
It had to exist, but I don't recall it. Did you dance
at Uncle Ed's? Little. Did you eat? A little, not
much. It was a beer joint for kids. Was there any
kind of rule that you remember about age in order to
buy beer?
Lord have mercy, it couldn't have been much
because I came here at 16. And was there a problem
with drunkenness? Some of those little A&M boys
wouldn't get kind of drunk, but it wasn't a
problem. First of all, you didn't have any
automobiles. An automobile was the exception. I
had 32 times 2 is 64 plus 16 times 2 is 32. I had 100 men
in my unit. And as I recall, it was one automobile.
There was an old boy named Lee Ravey from Amarillo.
He was a little bit advanced in age. He was probably
a year old to be a senior and so on. And he had a car. So
you weren't going to be a DWI very often. All right.
Other than hard liquors, what were some other
famous places? Well...